>> GOOD MORNING, EVERYONE.
WELCOME TO CNN THIS MORNING.
IF I'M POPPY HARLOW WITH PHIL
HARDING.
WE ARE LIVE IN TEL AVIV WHERE A
HOSTAGE RELEASED BY HAMAS
YESTERDAY IS NOW SPEAKING.
SHE'S TELLING HER STORY.
THIS MORNING, AT THE HOSPITAL,
85-YEAR-OLD YOCHEVED LIFSHITZ
TOLD REPORTERS HOW SHE WAS
ABDUCTED AND HELD CAPTIVE
UNDERGROUND FOR WEEKS.
>> THE GRANDMOTHER SAYS FOUR OF
HAMAS FIGHTERS STORMED HER
KIBBUTZ DURING THE MASSACRE AND
TOOK HER WAY ON A MOTORBIKE AND
BEAT HER WITH SIX.
SHE SAYS THEY TOOK RENT HAMAS'S
UNDERGROUND TUNNEL NETWORK AND
HELD HER WITH FOUR OTHER
HOSTAGES.
THEY HAD GUARDS, A DOCTOR, AND
A PARAMEDIC WHO TOOK CARE OF
THEM, GAVE THE MEDICINE.
SHE SAYS HAMAS HAD A STOCKPILE
OF SHAMPOO AND OTHER TOILETRIES
FOR HOSTAGES TO USE.
>> THERE ARE HUGE NETWORK OF
TUNNELS UNDERNEATH.
IT LOOKS LIKE A SPIDER WEB.
WHEN SHE FIRST ARRIVED, THEY
TOLD HIM THAT THERE ARE MUSLIMS,
AND THEY ARE NOT GONNA HURT
THEM.
AND THAT THEY ATE THE SAME FOOD
THAT THE HAMAS WAS EATING.
>> HAMAS HAS NOW RELEASED FOUR
HOSTAGES AS ISRAELI TROOPS GEAR
UP TO LAUNCH AN ASSAULT THEY
SAY ON GAZA BY GROUND, SEE, AND
AIR.
ISRAELI MILITARY SIT STRUCK
MORE THAN 400 TARGETS ACROSS
GAZA IN THE PAST DAY, KILLING
HAMAS COMMANDERS AND FIGHTERS.
THIS AS MORE THAN 200 HOSTAGES
ARE STILL BELIEVED TO BE HELD
BY HAMAS INSIDE GAZA, AND WE'VE
LEARNED THAT INCLUDES 30
CHILDREN.
LET'S GO TO ERIN BURNETT.
SHE JOINS US LIVE IN THIS HOUR
IN TEL AVIV.
AARON, HEARING FROM HER, ALL OF
THOSE DETAILS, INCLUDING, BY
THE WAY SOME CRITICISM OF THE
IDF AND LACK OF PREPAREDNESS,
WAS REMARKABLE THIS MORNING.
>> IT WAS REMARKABLE.
SHE DIDN'T HAVE CRITICISM FOR
THE IDF, YOU KNOW HOW THEY
OBVIOUSLY WERE NOT THERE.
YOU KNOW, ALSO, POPPY,
SOMETHING STOOD OUT IN THE
MUNDANE NECESSITY.
YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT TUNNELS.
WE KNOW THESE TUNNELS HAVE
VENTILATION.
WE KNOW THEY'VE BEEN KNOWN TO
HAVE AIR CONDITIONING.
THIS IS ALL BEEN REPORTING THAT
WE'VE HEARD FROM THE ISRAELIS
OVER THE YEARS.
BUT THE FACT THAT THEY ARE
SAYING SHE WAS HELD UNDERGROUND
FOR MORE THAN TWO WEEKS, THAT
THERE WAS SHAMPOO, THERE WAS
ANTIBIOTICS, THERE WAS A GUARD
PER HOSTAGE IN THE EXPERIENCE
SHE HAD.
THAT THERE WERE MEDICS AND
PARAMEDICS AND OBVIOUSLY SHE IS
ELDERLY.
THE OTHER WOMAN WHO WAS
RELEASED ALSO ELDERLY AND HAD
MEDICAL NEEDS, AND THEN THEY
HAD THE MEDICINE NEEDED, AND IF,
NOT SOMETHING SIMILAR TO
REPLACE IT.
IT IS PRETTY STUNNING.
BECAUSE YOU'VE GOT TO CONTRAST
THAT WITH WHAT IS HAPPENING
ABOVE THE GROUND, RIGHT, WHERE
THERE IS NOT WATER, NEVER MIND
SHAMPOO.
THEY DON'T HAVE WATER, THEY ARE
USING TOILET WATER.
THERE IS NO MORPHINE FOR ANY
KIND OF AMPUTATIONS,
ANTIBIOTICS, NO.
BUT HAMAS HAD STOCKPILED ALL OF
THAT AND HAS ALL OF THE
UNDERGROUND.
THAT IS WHAT WE ARE LEARNING
FROM HER.
>> SO THAT, POINT ERIN, WE WANT
TO PLAY THIS OUT FOR ON THIS.
BECAUSE IT GETS AT JUST HOW
PREPARED THEY WERE FOR TAKING
HOSTAGES, INCLUDING AT THE
SCALE THAT THEY TOOK.
THEM TAKE A LISTEN.
>> THEY LOOKED VERY WELL
PREPARED.
THEY PREPARED IT FOR A LONG
PERIOD OF TIME.
ALL OF THE NEEDS FOR WOMEN
NEED.
SHAMPOO, CONDITIONER.
ME >> DID THAT SURPRISE YOU?
I KNOW EVERYONE WAS SURPRISED
BY THE SCALE OF THE ACTUAL
TERROR ATTACK ITSELF.
BUT THE PREPARATIONS FOR
HOSTAGE TAKING ALSO SEEMED TO
BE A SIGNIFICANT PIECE OF THE
PLAN.
>> YES.
WHEN THEY SAY PREPARED FOR
WOMEN'S NEEDS, THEY WERE THERE
FOR PREPARED, I MEAN, LET'S
JUST GO AHEAD.
I THINK WE'RE BEING HONEST
ABOUT.
IT MEANS THEY HAD TAMPONS AND
THINGS.
THAT IS A LEVEL OF PREPARATION
FOR WHAT THEY WERE GOING TO DO.
AND IT SHOWS THAT THEY WERE
GOING TO TAKE PEOPLE OF ALL
DIFFERENT AGES.
IT SHOWS A PREPARATION FOR
THAT.
AND WE SAW THAT IN THE PLANS
THAT WE'VE SEEN IT TAKEN FROM
THE BODIES OF HAMAS MILITANTS
WHO WERE KILLED IN THE
TERRORIST ATTACK.
YOU KNOW, THAT IT LAYS OUT WHAT
THEY WERE GOING TO DO IN EVERY
SINGLE KIBBUTZ, AND THEY ALSO
LAID OUT VERY EXPLICITLY THE
ONES THAT I'VE HAD A CHANCE TO
READ WHAT THEY WERE GOING TO DO
WITH HOSTAGES.
TAKE AS MANY AS POSSIBLE.
HERE IS THE COMMUNAL EATING
AREA IN THIS CABOOSES, WHERE
THEY GO, THIS IS HOW YOU GET
THERE, HERE IS THE MAP.
IT IS CIRCLED.
TAKE THE HOSTAGES TH
SO THAT WAS VERY MUCH A PART OF
THE PRINTED PLAN.
AND I SEE THE OTHER END OF IT.
THE LEVEL OF PREPARATION THAT
WENT INTO IT.
AGAIN, IN THE MUNDANE REALITY
OF HAVING FEMININE HYGIENE
PRODUCTS.
SHAMPOO, ANTIBIOTICS.
IT IS THOSE VERY SPECIFICS THAT
I THINK THAT ARE MOST STRIKING.
>> FOR SURE, AND ERIN, I ALSO
WONDER ABOUT IF WE WILL LEARN
FROM HER OR SOME OF THE OTHER
HOSTAGES RELEASED HOW MUCH THEY
HAD, WHICH WOULD INDICATE HOW
LONG THEY HAD BEEN PLANNING, OR
HAD BEEN PLANNING TO HOLD THE
HOSTAGES.
SO WE'LL SEE.
I ALSO THOUGHT IT WAS STRIKING
THAT HER DAUGHTER, SHARON,
SPOKE AT THAT NEWS CONFERENCE
AS WELL.
AND THIS IS WHAT SHE SAID ABOUT
HER DAD, WHO OF COURSE, IS YOU
VETS HUSBAND.
LISTEN TO THIS.
>> MY MOM AND MY DAD WERE
SEPARATED AT THE VERY
BEGINNING.
>> WE DO NOT KNOW, FROM MY
MOM'S STORY, WHAT HAPPENED TO
MY DAD.
WE DO KNOW THAT HE WAS INJURED.
>> INJURED, AND VERY LIKELY
COULD STILL BE BEING HELD.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THEY WERE HELD IN SEPARATE
PLACES.
SO AS MUCH AS HAMAS AGAIN
GIVING THIS IMAGE OF HUMANE
TREATMENT TO HOSTAGES, YOU MUST
REMEMBER AGAIN THAT THEY WERE
HOSTAGES.
REMEMBER WHAT HAPPENED TO THE
PEOPLE WHO DID NOT GET TO
BECOME HOSTAGES.
DEPLORABLE, INHUMAN METHOD OF
THEIR BRUTAL MASSACRE AND
SLAUGHTER.
BUT THEN, WHEN THEY DO TAKE
PEOPLE HOSTAGE, THEY WOULD
SEPARATE.
SO A HUSBAND AND WIFE NOT BEING
TOGETHER, SHE DOES NOT KNOW
WHERE HE IS.
AND THAT OF COURSE IS THE
OBVIOUS RAISED POINT.
WE DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY ARE
BEING HELD, AND ARE THERE ANY
BEING HELD IN LARGER GROUPS.
WE KNOW HAMAS HAS SAID THAT
SOME OF THE HOSTAGES HAVE BEEN
KILLED IN ISRAELI AIRSTRIKES.
WE DON'T KNOW IF THEY'VE BEEN
KILLED, WE DON'T KNOW IF THEY
WERE KILLED BY ISRAELI
AIRSTRIKES OR ANYTHING ELSE.
BUT ALL WE KNOW AT THIS POINT
IS WHAT HAMAS HAS SAID.
THEY'VE INDICATED 22 OF THEM
HAVE BEEN KILLED IN STRIKES.
WE JUST DON'T KNOW IF IT IS
TRUE.
THE ISRAELI FORCE IS PREPARING
FOR THE GAZA GROUNDED PATIENT
GETTING COUNCIL FROM AN
AMERICAN MILITARY LATER IN THE
ISRAEL MARINE CORPS LIEUTENANT
JAMES GLIM WAS HEAD OF THE
MARINE FORCES SPECIAL
OPERATIONS COMMAND, AND IT IS
UNCLEAR THOUGH, WHILE OF COURSE
HE HAS THE EXPERIENCE AND THE
RESUME FOR SUCH A SITUATION, IT
IS UNCLEAR WHAT HIS SPECIFIC
ROLE IS HERE.
BUT UNOFFICIAL DOES SAY GENERAL
GLYNN HAS DECADES OF EXPERIENCE
AND CAN ASK, WHAT THEY SAY, ARE
THE HARD QUESTIONS, AS UNITED
STATES DOES NOT HAVE A CLEAR
SENSE OF ISRAEL'S INTENTIONS IN
GAZA.
THEY SAID THEY ARE GOING TO GET
RID OF HAMAS AND ALL RESPECTS.
BUT BEYOND, THAT WHAT THAT
ACTUALLY MEANS, THEY HAVE NOT
PROVIDED ANY SPECIFICS.
CNN'S NIC ROBERTSON IS IN
SDEROT, ISRAEL, WHERE HE HAS
BEEN SINCE THE BEGINNING OF
THIS WAR.
AND AS WE HAVE BEEN IN THE
MIDST OF WHAT IS NOW 17 DAYS
INTO A WAR, WHAT ARE YOU SEEING
IN TERMS OF MILITARY MOVEMENT
THIS MORNING, AND THE CONTEXT
OF WHAT?
MORE THAN 300 STRIKES THAT
ISRAEL IS SAYING THEY CONDUCTED
IN THE PAST 24 HOURS IN GAZA.
>> YEAH.
JUST GO BACK TO WHAT YOU ARE
SEEING THERE ABOUT THE FORMER
MARINE GENERAL.
I THINK THE ONLY PIECE OF
CONTEXT HERE, OF COURSE, IS THE
FACT THAT WE KNOW THAT THERE IS
SOME MARINE EXPEDITIONARY UNIT
OF 2000 WHO HAVE BEEN ON
READINESS AND STANDBY TO COME
IN AND GIVE LOGISTIC SUPPORT
ANOTHER UNSPECIFIED SUPPORT TO
THE ISRAELI MILITARY.
AT A TIME WHEN THERE ARE
AMERICAN HOSTAGES BEING HELD BY
HAMAS INSIDE GAZA.
SO IT SEEMS, YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU
PICK AND CHOOSE WHICH GENERAL
TO COME AND GIVE WHAT SORT OF
ADVICE, YOU ARE ALSO PICKING
ONE WHO WOUL VERY FAMILIAR
WITH THE SORT OF EXPERTISE,
READINESS, OF WHAT THESE
MARINES WHO ARE SITTING JUST
OFF SHORE HAVE AT THEIR
DISPOSAL.
IT SPEAKS TO ME AS A NATION AS
WELL.
OF COURSE, THAT IS NOT WHAT WE
ARE BEING TOLD, BUT WHEN IT
COMES TO THE READINESS, WE
HEARD FROM A PRIME MINISTER
TODAY, PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU
WHEN HE WAS SPEAKING WITH THE
FRENCH PRESIDENT, EMMANUEL
MACRON, WHO HAS GIVEN HIS
SUPPORT TO ISRAEL'S RIGHT TO
STRIKE BACK AT HAMAS.
THE PRIME MINISTER SAID IT
COULD BE A LONG WAR.
I'M STRUCK BY THE FACT THAT HE
SAID IT COULD BE, BECAUSE UNTIL
NOW, HE'S BEEN VERY, VERY
CLEAR.
SAYING HE WILL GO AFTER THEM,
AND WE WILL GET THE JOB DONE.
WE WILL COMPLETELY GET RID OF
HAMAS.
BUT I THINK THIS IS ALSO
INDICATIVE OF THE FACT THAT
THERE IS NO STEPPING BACK FROM
THE POSSIBILITY OF A GROUND
INCURSION.
WE ARE NOT SEEING ANYTHING ON
THE GROUND AT THE MOMENT THAT
WOULD INDICATE THAT.
WE ARE STILL HEARING HEAVY
DETONATIONS COMING FROM WITHIN
GAZA, WE'VE HEARD MILITARY
HELICOPTERS IN THE AREA THIS
MORNING.
SO WHAT WE HEARD FROM THE
ISRAELI DEFENSE CHIEF YESTERDAY,
AND GENERAL STAFF, KIND OF
GENERAL STAFF SAYING THAT THEY
ARE READY.
THAT TROOPS ARE READY, THAT
THEY ARE GETTING ADDNAL
TRAINING.
BUT I THINK THE POSTURE IS SET
FOR WHEN THE COMMAND COMES.
THAT THE TROOPS ARE READY FOR
THAT INCURSION, VERY CLEAR THAT
THEY ARE BEING PAUSED.
VERY CLEAR THAT THAT HAS TO DO
WITH HUMANITARIAN AID, HAS TO
DO WITH HOSTAGES, NEEDS THAT.
BUT THE FORCES, THEY'RE READY
TO GO.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE PULLING IT
BACK AT THAT MOMENT, ERIN.
>> ALL RIGHT, NICK ROBERTSON,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALONG WITH THE GAZA BORDER AND
SDROT, I WANT TO GO NOW TO THE
IDF SPOKESPERSON, LIEUTENANT
COLONEL PETER LERNER.
LIEUTENANT, I APPRECIATE YOUR
TIME.
I'M GLAD TO SPEAK TO YOU THIS
MORNING.
I WANT TO GIVE YOU FIRST CHANCE
TO RESPOND TO WHAT WE WERE
SAYING WAS ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT STOOD UP AS THESE HOSTAGE
HAVE SPOKEN OUT.
THAT HAMAS WAS PREPARED FOR
THIS, FEMININE HYGIENE PRODUCTS,
SHAMPOO, ANTIBIOTICS, AND
PARAMEDICS, MEDICAL CARE,
EATING THE SAME FOOD AS THE
HOSTAGES EIGHT.
HOW DO YOU RESPOND TO THAT?
>> WELL, CLEARLY, ERIN.
THEY WERE PREPARED FOR THE
ATTACK.
WE SEE JUST THE MAGNITUDE OF
THEIR ATTACKS.
THEY HAD A VERY CLEAR PLAN OF
ACTION, SO IT SHOULD NOT BE ANY
SURPRISE TO US THAT THIS IS
WHAT THEY HAD UNDERGROUND AS
THEY ABDUCTED OVER 200 PEOPLE
INTO GAZA.
I REMIND YOU, THEY DID A
COORDINATED ATTACK WITH MORE
THAN 20 POINTS OF BREACH,
OVERGROUND, AT GROUND, AND
ETSY.
THEY PENETRATED SOME 30
DIFFERENT COMMUNITIES ACROSS
THE SOUTHERN PART OF ISRAEL.
AND MURDERED AND OVER 1400
PEOPLE.
SO WHY SHOULD WE BE SURPRISED?